what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose you don't
know who I am my name is Nasir I'm a
second year medical student at King's
College London and I make these YouTube
videos to try and help you guys with
your medical school applications so
today I'm gonna be covering section
three of the beam at the essay writing
sections
I'm gonna go through some general tips
for that section and then I'm gonna take
a look at some essay plans on my
computer and talk about how I would
answer them live on camera so you guys
can see one of the kinds of things that
I would be thinking about when solving
them if you guys want to see more videos
like this definitely leave a like on
this video subscribe to my channel and
that way you'll be notified when new
videos on the Bema are uploaded before
we begin a quick shout out to mattify
for sponsoring this video if you guys
want to check out their website or any
resources for the Bema UK cow or
personal statement i'll leave links in
the description down below
alright now without further ado let's
get started on the general tips so
section 3 of the Bema is all about
communication so about how you can
logically rationally and efficiently get
your thoughts down on a piece of paper
and answer the essay question I know
this is the last section on the exam so
you're probably really tired and drained
by the time you get to it but you
definitely don't neglect it it's still
part three it still looked down by
universities and you still want to do
well tip number one is don't
misinterpret what the question is asking
you want to answer exactly what the
question is asking of you because if you
go off topic or you start talking about
other things you're gonna lose a lot of
marks tip 2 is to make sure that you
answer every single part of the question
the question is probably gonna have two
maybe three parts and you want to make
sure that you address all of them the
second that you forget one of those
parts of the question you're gonna
immediately be capped out 50% of the
total marks so you definitely don't want
to do that read the question two or
three times to make sure you've answered
every single component the third tip is
to not have a one-sided response you
want to make sure that you give both
pros and against or four and on the
contrary for every part of the question
and then you can come to a conclusion
and the conclusion that you come to
should be the one that is most correct
it's the one that a doctor would do or
one that the GMC wants you to do so
that's the conclusion you should come to
but always argue both sides of the
argument my fourth tip I would say is to
have a look at as many passed paper
questions as possible the reason for
this is that if you take a look at all
the past papers you'll notice certain
themes that tend to come up over and
over again so you want to have a look at
all those that you can answer them
really well if something similar
comes up on your exam tip number five is
don't spend too long choosing your essay
question you want to have a look at all
the questions you want to skim through
them and then just decide what you think
works best for you well you'll be able
to answer best and just go for it if you
spend five even 10 minutes flip-flopping
or trying to decide which question you
want to do that's a lot of wasted time
that you could spend writing down your
points on paper tip number five is about
essay planning I know that for me
personally I never used essay plans
because it would stress me out that I
was spending time writing something down
that wasn't my actual final essay but I
know that a lot of people swear by essay
plans and they can't write essays
without them so see what works for you
what type of person you are and if you
use essay plans great if you don't like
essay plans that's also totally fine and
my final tip is to always leave enough
time to review your essay leave
something like three to five minutes at
the end of the time so that you can have
a look over your essay you are going to
find mistakes you are going to find
grammatical errors and there might be
something that you want to clarify or
make more easy to understand for the
reader definitely take the time to do
this because it's important that your
overall language and use of English is
correct and it gives a more professional
and better read for your essay I'm also
going to include the essay rubric
somewhere over here you guys can have a
look at it to compare your essay answers
to this rubric as you can see full marks
it's for an essay with an excellent
answer and no significant weaknesses you
want to make sure you address all the
components of the question like I said
before you have to have good arguments
for and against the point yeah you
should have a compelling conclusion
logical rational and coherent arguments
okay so now let's go and take a look at
a couple of actual essays see what I
would plan for them how I would
structure my forma against my conclusion
all of that okay so here we are on the
medified Bheema online course essay
plans are located under the tutorial
section at the very bottom under section
3 so I've actually had to look out quite
a few of these essay plans of how to
read of quite a few of them and I'm
gonna look at all the questions and
answer the ones that I think I would do
best at in the actual exam since 2016 or
2017 the Bema has stopped including the
vets related questions so I'm not going
to take them into account when reading
which question I would choose so looking
at the 2015 paws paper we have these
three questions computers are useless
they can only give you answers ok so
technology something that I'm really
interested in it's probably something
that I could talk about for a long time
so this is definitely one I'll keep on
the side
now which can be asserted without
evidence can be dismissed without
evidence okay obviously find that pretty
interesting but I generally tend to not
do the philosophy related questions and
that's just a personal preference I'm
personally not that good at them so I'm
probably not gonna do that one and then
when treating an individual patient a
physician must also think of the wider
society that's also really good I might
do that one after but first I'm gonna do
computers I use this they can only give
you answers so this is the full question
computers are useless they can only give
you answers quote by Pablo Picasso
explain what is meant by this statement
argue to the contrary what are the real
limits of technology I'm gonna go away
for ten minutes I'm gonna type down a
couple of things that I would write for
each part of this question and I'm gonna
structure it exactly as the question
asks it to me I'm gonna explain what
this means or explain what this
statement means argue the contrary and
what are the real limits of technology
alright so I'll see you guys in a couple
of minutes once I've typed out a couple
of my thoughts okay so I'm back first
things first I'm gonna define the
statement or explain the statement I'm
gonna say that computers are electronic
components that carry out instructions
after a human gives them an input now to
argue for this statement I'm gonna say
that computers have no creativity
computers can think for themselves the
only thing that they can do is carry out
instructions once they're told to do so
in fact they can't even do something
that's a little bit different they can't
adopt or change to different scenarios
they just do exactly what they're told
so computers allow creativity entirely
in addition to that to someone like
Pablo Picasso whose whole definition of
creativity revolves around being able to
express his emotions and thoughts onto a
painting he's gonna find something like
computers pretty stupid because
obviously computers aren't able to do
that computers simply carry out
instructions one after another and then
some of the things that I've written
down are that computers can work alone
doing the human counterparts and what a
computer could do back then in Pablo
Picasso's time is obviously very
different to what a computer can do now
to Pablo Picasso back then computers
might have been deemed useless because
they could only do very simple things so
to argue against this Damon I would say
that computers back then are not the
same as they are now computers now
especially with the advancement of
things like artificial intelligence are
starting to exhibit things like
creativity computers can actually come
up with images from scratch they can
create for
they can start to mimic human speech and
things of that nature so computers are
definitely becoming much much more
advanced in fact nowadays they could
probably inspire someone like Pablo
Picasso and help Pablo Picasso in
achieving their art not only our
computer is not stupid but they can do
things now that humans couldn't dream of
doing over many many years and the last
part of this question is about what are
the real limits of technology and
personally I think that the real limit
of technology isn't in the actual humans
creativity or the humans innovation it's
in the actual physical components of a
computer for example the transistors the
resistors all these things are limited
by physics by the speed of light by the
amount of electrons that can be
transferred the way they can be
transferred things like that so I think
those are likely to limit our technology
much much quicker than humans are then I
would conclude by saying something like
computers aren't stupid
they just weren't very capable back then
and that's why pop gasa may have deemed
them useless but nowadays of course
computers are extremely beneficial and
extremely helpful to wider society and
to someone like Pablo Picasso if they
were around okay I was glancing okay I
was glancing over these questions and I
really like this one from 2012 the
scientist is not someone who gives the
right answers but one who asks the right
questions so this is the full question
the scientist is not someone who gives
the right answers but one who asks the
right questions explain what this
statement means argue to the contrary
that the right answers are more
important than the right questions to
what extent do you agree that the right
questions must be asked before science
can progress so I would start this
answer by saying that science can't
progress if we don't answer the right
questions we can spend an eternity
chasing the wrong questions looking for
an answer in the wrong place and we'll
never progress if we're not originally
searching in the right place or at least
moving towards the correct questions so
argue for this statement I would say
that in scientific research a lot of
good research is involved and needed
before actually investigating is that
you make sure that you're answering the
right question before you devote a lot
of time energy people and resources to
answering a question you want to make
sure that you're at least moving in the
right direction why would we even ask a
question if it's not going to lead to
something useful which we can apply to
humanity and benefit society to argue
against that I would say that you're
never gonna find out anything if you
don't start asking questions
you don't have to spend an eternity
figuring out what the exact correct
question is you just need to start
somewhere you can
question and then as you move along as
you discover more things you can narrow
down the question and move further in
the right direction in fact a lot of
discoveries in our past have come by
accident
we've been looking into a question
that's may be related or even totally
unrelated to what gets discovered and
that's totally fine
that happens through curiosity and
looking into something any question you
ask is only the beginning
you as you move forward as you discover
new things you can now add down the
question and start finding that correct
answer and then to what extent do you
agree that the right questions must be
asked before science can progress I
would say that I only partially agree I
definitely agree that it's helpful too
if you ask the right question from the
beginning you'll probably be more on
your way to finding the correct answer
but again it's only a starting point and
we didn't discover everything that we
have today because we spent tons of time
and research defining the exact correct
question we were just curious and we
asked different things we started
exploring and we saw what we came up
with and moved on from there over time
your question can always be refined I
think the correct answer is strike a
balance by finding the best possible
question that you can and moving from
there okay guys I think that's what I'm
gonna call it for today
I hope you guys found useful the general
tips that I gave you and also enjoyed
when I was talking about the questions
and the essay plans if you enjoyed this
video definitely leave a like subscribe
to my channel and you'll see more videos
from me in the future best of luck guys
in your beam up preparation I hope you
kill it and let me know how those
applications are going and that's it
guys I'll see you in the next one peace